Running NLP models in Snowflake using Python can indeed be challenging due to the limitations in managing Python environments and dependencies directly within Snowflake. However, there are strategies and tools you can use to mitigate these challenges.

Managing Python Environments and Dependencies
Conda Environments: For managing Python environments and dependencies, you can use Conda. Snowflake's documentation suggests creating a Conda environment specifically for your NLP and ML tasks. This approach allows you to manage dependencies more effectively, similar to how you would in a local development environment. You can create a Conda environment using the following commands:

conda update conda
conda update python
conda env create -f ./snowpark-env/conda-env_nlp_ml_sentiment_analysis.yml --force

This setup ensures that you have a consistent environment for your Python code, including all necessary libraries for NLP and ML tasks 1.

Installing Additional Libraries: If you need to install additional Python libraries that are not included in the default Snowflake environment, you can do so by activating your Conda environment and using Conda or pip to install the libraries. For example, to install the lightgbm library, you can use:

conda activate snowpark-ml
conda install --override-channels --channel https://repo.anaconda.com/pkgs/snowflake/ lightgbm

Or, if you prefer using pip:

.venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install 'snowflake-ml-python[lightgbm]'

This method allows you to add any additional libraries you need for your NLP model without needing to go through Snowflake support

https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowpark-ml/index

Debugging Python Code
Debugging Python code in Snowflake can be challenging due to the lack of direct access to the environment and the limitations in error reporting. However, you can use the following strategies to make the process easier:

Logging: Implement logging in your Python code to capture errors and important information. This can help you understand what went wrong during the execution of your code.
Local Testing: Before deploying your code to Snowflake, test it locally in an environment that closely mirrors Snowflake's. This can help you catch and fix errors before deployment.
Snowpark Documentation and Community: Utilize Snowpark's documentation and community resources for troubleshooting common issues. The Snowpark documentation provides detailed guides and examples that can help you understand how to use Snowpark effectively 5.
Conclusion
While running NLP models in Snowflake using Python presents unique challenges, especially in managing environments and dependencies, these can be mitigated through the use of Conda environments, careful library management, and thorough testing. Additionally, leveraging Snowpark's documentation and community resources can provide valuable insights and solutions to common issues.

https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowpark/python/python-snowpark-training-ml

How to manage the environment for data scientist  study in Azure

Managing the environment for data science studies in Azure involves leveraging Azure Machine Learning environments and the Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM) to create a conducive and efficient workspace. Here's how you can manage your environment effectively:

Azure Machine Learning Environments
Azure Machine Learning environments allow you to track and reproduce your projects' software dependencies as they evolve. You can:

Browse curated environments: Start with pre-configured environments that come with a set of pre-installed packages suitable for various data science tasks.
Create an environment and specify package dependencies: Define your own environment by specifying the Python packages you need. This ensures that your projects have all the necessary dependencies.
Edit an existing environment specification and its properties: Modify your environment as your project requirements change, ensuring that your environment remains up-to-date and relevant.
Rebuild an environment and view image build logs: If you make changes to your environment, you can rebuild it to apply those changes. This process also provides logs that can help you troubleshoot any issues that arise during the build process 1.
Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM)
The DSVM provides a rich environment on the Azure platform, with prebuilt software for artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics. It's designed to enhance productivity for individual data scientists and AI developers by offering a shared, prebuilt analytics environment. Key features include:

Shared analytics infrastructure: The DSVM facilitates collaboration and consistency across data science and analytics teams by providing a shared infrastructure for development and experimentation.
Compliance with enterprise IT policies: IT administrators can configure the DSVM to operate in compliance with the IT policies of the enterprise, ensuring that the analytics environment is secure and compliant.
Access to corporate data assets: The DSVM offers full flexibility in implementing various sharing architectures while also offering access to corporate data assets in a controlled way 3.
Best Practices for Managing Your Environment
Design and create a suitable working environment: Before starting your data science projects, design and create a working environment that is tailored to your specific needs. This includes selecting the right Azure services and tools for your project.
Explore data and train machine learning models: Utilize Azure Machine Learning and other Azure services to explore data, train machine learning models, and implement pipelines.
Implement and monitor scalable machine learning solutions: Manage, deploy, and monitor your machine learning solutions to ensure they are scalable and performant.
Develop hands-on experience: Work on real projects to deepen your understanding and build your confidence in applying your knowledge to real-world scenarios. This could involve tasks like data exploration, data cleaning, feature engineering, model development, and evaluation 4.
By leveraging Azure Machine Learning environments and the DSVM, you can create a robust and efficient environment for your data science studies in Azure. This setup will enable you to manage your software dependencies effectively, enhance productivity, and ensure compliance with enterprise IT policies.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/data-science-virtual-machine/dsvm-enterprise-overview?view=azureml-api-2

Data Storage solution in Azure for Data Scietisnt activities

For data scientists working with Azure, choosing the right data storage solution is crucial for managing datasets efficiently and cost-effectively. Azure offers a variety of storage services, each designed for specific needs, from structured data to massive unstructured datasets. Here's a breakdown of the key storage solutions suitable for data scientist activities:

Azure Blob Storage
Ideal for: Large datasets, especially unstructured data.
Features: Offers varying redundancy options and hot and cold access tiers, allowing for a balance between performance and cost.
Use Case: Suitable for storing large datasets that do not require frequent access, such as raw data for analysis or long-term storage of backups 2.
Azure Data Lake Storage
Ideal for: Businesses heavily relying on big data analytics.
Features: Provides a high-speed, secure data analytics experience, integrating well with Azure Machine Learning and Azure Databricks.
Use Case: Perfect for storing and analyzing large volumes of data, supporting big data analytics workflows 2.
Azure Files
Ideal for: Simple, secure, and serverless enterprise-grade cloud file shares.
Features: Offers shared access, file snapshots, and Azure Active Directory integration for enhanced security.
Use Case: Suitable for applications that require file shares, such as applications that need to share data across multiple instances or services 1.
Azure NetApp Files
Ideal for: Enterprise-grade file shares, powered by NetApp.
Features: Provides high performance, scalability, and data protection.
Use Case: Ideal for applications requiring high-performance file storage, such as databases or high-throughput applications 1.
Azure Disk Storage
Ideal for: High-performance, highly durable block storage.
Features: Offers premium SSDs for high-performance applications and standard HDDs for cost-effective storage.
Use Case: Suitable for virtual machines that require high IOPS and throughput, such as databases or high-performance computing applications 1.
Azure Backup
Ideal for: Simplifying data protection with built-in backup management at scale.
Features: Provides backup and restore capabilities for Azure VMs, databases, and other Azure services.
Use Case: Essential for ensuring data durability and recoverability, protecting against data loss 1.
Conclusion
The choice of storage solution in Azure depends on your specific needs, such as the size and type of data you handle, your budget, and the nature of your data science projects. Azure offers a wide array of storage services, each tailored for specific scenarios, ensuring that you can find the right fit for your data scientist activities

5 factos for Data Scitentist team to choice storage solution

When choosing a storage solution for data scientist activities in Azure, the following five factors are crucial to consider:

Data Volume and Type: The size and nature of the data you're working with are fundamental. For large, unstructured datasets, Azure Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake Storage might be suitable. For structured data, Azure SQL Database or Azure Cosmos DB could be more appropriate 1.
Performance Requirements: The speed at which you need to access and process data is another key consideration. High-performance requirements might lean towards Azure Disk Storage for virtual machines or Azure NetApp Files for high-throughput applications 1.
Cost: The cost of storage and the pricing model (e.g., pay-as-you-go, reserved capacity) can significantly impact the overall budget for your data science projects. Understanding the cost implications of different storage solutions is essential 1.
Scalability: As your data grows, your storage solution needs to scale accordingly. Azure offers various storage services that can scale automatically to meet your needs, from Azure Blob Storage to Azure Data Lake Storage 1.
Security and Compliance: Data security and compliance are paramount, especially when dealing with sensitive information. Azure provides robust security features and compliance certifications to help ensure data privacy and regulatory adherence. This is crucial for data scientists working with sensitive or regulated data 5.
By considering these factors, data scientists can make informed decisions about which Azure storage solution best meets their specific needs, ensuring efficient data management, cost-effectiveness, and compliance with security standards.

Data Volume and Type: Consider the size and structure of your data.
Performance Requirements: Evaluate how quickly we need to access and process data.
Cost: Understand the pricing model and budget implications.
Scalability: Ensure the solution can grow with your data.
Security and Compliance: Assess the solution's security features and compliance with regulations.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-considerations



To import external Python code into Snowflake, especially for use in Python worksheets, you can follow these steps based on the provided sources:

Create a Snowflake Stage: First, you need to create a stage in Snowflake that points to an external storage location where your Python code or packages are stored. This could be an Azure Blob Storage, Amazon S3, or Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket. The stage acts as a temporary storage area for loading data into Snowflake 1.
Upload Your Python Code or Packages: Upload your Python code or packages to the external storage location referenced by the Snowflake stage. Ensure that the code or packages follow the guidelines defined in Snowflake's General Limitations for Python UDFs. If your package includes native code, you must use the Anaconda Snowflake channel 1.
Add the Python File from a Stage to a Worksheet: In your Snowflake Python worksheet, you can add the Python file or package from the stage to your worksheet. To do this, you need to enter the path to the package in the stage. If the stage is in the same database and schema as your worksheet, you can reference it using an unqualified name, like @YourStage/path/to/example_package.py. If the stage is in a different database or schema, you need to fully qualify the stage name, for example, @Database.Schema.Stage/path/to/other_package.py 2.
Import the Package: After referencing the package in your worksheet, select "Import" to add your package to the list of installed packages for your Python worksheet. This makes the package available for use within your worksheet 2.
Use the Imported Package: Once the package is imported, you can use import statements in your Python code to utilize the package. For example, if you've imported a package named scikit-learn, you would add import scikit-learn at the beginning of your code 2.
Running Your Code: After importing the necessary packages and writing your Python code, you can execute it within the Snowflake Python worksheet. Any error messages or the return value from your code will appear in the "Results" section of the worksheet. To view log messages, you can select "Output" 2.

https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/intro-key-concepts


Optimise this! 

Large array, checking to see if the string in one column is in the string of a second column. For 10million rows (approx size of our cost matrix) on my i7 laptop just takes 3s with tiny_test_02.R whereas with tiny_test_02_slow.py it takes 246s.  


