The delay you're experiencing when running your UDF in Snowflake, which takes 45 minutes for logs to show up in the my_event table, could be attributed to several factors related to the nature of Python UDFs in Snowflake and the specific operations you're performing within your UDF. Here are some potential reasons and considerations:

Performance with Single Row Prediction: Your UDF is likely performing single-row predictions, which can be slow, especially with data science frameworks like spaCy. To improve performance, consider converting the input dataset into Snowflake arrays and feeding the arrays into the prediction code. This can be done using tabular Python UDTFs, the ARRAY_AGG function, or vectorized Python UDFs, which are optimized for batch processing.
Cold Warehouse Startup: If the warehouse was suspended and then resumed, there might be an additional latency of approximately 30 seconds due to the need to reinstall Anaconda packages on-demand. This is because newly provisioned virtual warehouses do not preinstall Anaconda packages, and they are installed on-demand the first time a UDF is used.
Unzipping and Loading Models: Your UDF involves unzipping and loading models from ZIP files. This process, especially if it's done for the first time or after a warehouse restart, can add significant overhead. The use of file locks to ensure synchronized access to the /tmp directory and the extraction process itself can contribute to the delay. Additionally, loading models from extracted files can be time-consuming, especially if the models are large or complex 5.
Data Processing Overhead: The operations performed within your UDF, such as processing text with spaCy and extracting entities, can be computationally intensive, especially if the input data is large. This can lead to increased processing time, especially if the UDF is not optimized for batch processing or if the warehouse resources are not sufficient to handle the load efficiently.
Network and File Access: While not directly mentioned in your UDF code, it's worth noting that Python UDFs in Snowflake have limitations regarding network access and writing to files due to security constraints. This means that any operations that rely on downloading additional data or writing to files might not work as expected and could potentially contribute to delays if not handled correctly.

To address these issues, consider the following optimizations:

Batch Processing: Modify your UDF to process data in batches instead of single rows. This can significantly improve performance by leveraging vectorized operations and reducing the overhead associated with processing each row individually.
Optimize Warehouse Size and Type: Ensure that your warehouse is appropriately sized and configured for the workload. For tasks involving large datasets or complex computations, a larger warehouse size or a warehouse optimized for compute-intensive tasks might be necessary.
Preload Models: If possible, preload models outside of the UDF to avoid the overhead of unzipping and loading them each time the UDF is called. This might involve using a different approach or tool for model deployment that is more suited to Snowflake's environment.
Review and Optimize Code: Review your UDF code for any potential optimizations, such as reducing the complexity of operations, minimizing the use of external libraries, or simplifying the data processing logic




Transform Your Data:
Utilize the Snowpark DataFrame API for data preparation, including text representation and feature engineering. This step is crucial for making your data ready for training 2.
Train Your Model:
Train your NLP model using a stored procedure inside Snowflake. This involves leveraging Python libraries and the Snowpark framework to fit your model to the data 2.
For example, you can define a training function that prepares the data, creates a text representation matrix, fits the model, and saves it 2.
Deploy Your Model:
Deploy your trained model using a User-Defined Function (UDF) in Snowflake. This allows you to integrate your model directly into SQL queries for real-time predictions 2.
Inference and Monitoring:
Use the deployed model for inference by calling the UDF function in your SQL queries. Monitor the performance and accuracy of your model using Snowflake's Query Profile and Query History 1.
Snowpark allows for efficient distribution of prediction functions across rows, enabling scalable and performant ML workflows 1.
Application Development with Streamlit:
Develop applications to interact with your NLP model using Streamlit. This can include making predictions, monitoring your ML model, and creating applications for business teams 1.
Best Practices:
Use stored procedures to push Python code into Snowflake for processing, which is more efficient than client-side processing.
Cache the training dataset using df.cache_result() to minimize I/O operations.
Cache model files when loading them in UDF functions to speed up predictions 1.
By following these steps, you can effectively save your NLP study into Snowflake, process it using Snowpark for Python, and develop applications with Streamlit. This approach allows you to leverage Snowflake's scalability and security while maintaining the flexibility and power of Python for NLP and ML tasks.


https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70793413/how-to-clear-last-run-query-cache-in-snowflake

SELECT TO_DATE(start_time) AS date,
 warehouse_name,
 SUM(avg_running) AS sum_running,
 SUM(avg_queued_load) AS sum_queued
FROM snowflake.account_usage.warehouse_load_history
WHERE TO_DATE(start_time) >= DATEADD(month,-1,CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())
GROUP BY 1,2
HAVING SUM(avg_queued_load) >0;


SELECT *
FROM "SNOWFLAKE"."ACCOUNT_USAGE"."QUERY_HISTORY"
WHERE START_TIME >= DATEADD('day', -7, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())
AND START_TIME < CURRENT_TIMESTAMP();

https://select.dev/posts/snowflake-warehouse-sizing#1-processing-power
https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/warehouses-overview

--LIST OF WAREHOUSES AND DAYS WHERE MCW COULD HAVE HELPED
SELECT TO_DATE(START_TIME) as DATE
,WAREHOUSE_NAME
,SUM(AVG_RUNNING) AS SUM_RUNNING
,SUM(AVG_QUEUED_LOAD) AS SUM_QUEUED
FROM "SNOWFLAKE"."ACCOUNT_USAGE"."WAREHOUSE_LOAD_HISTORY"
WHERE TO_DATE(START_TIME) >= DATEADD(month,-1,CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())
GROUP BY 1,2
HAVING SUM(AVG_QUEUED_LOAD) >0
;

--LIST OF WAREHOUSES AND QUERIES WHERE A LARGER WAREHOUSE WOULD HAVE HELPED WITH REMOTE SPILLING
SELECT QUERY_ID
,USER_NAME
,WAREHOUSE_NAME
,WAREHOUSE_SIZE
,BYTES_SCANNED
,BYTES_SPILLED_TO_REMOTE_STORAGE
,BYTES_SPILLED_TO_REMOTE_STORAGE / BYTES_SCANNED AS SPILLING_READ_RATIO
FROM "SNOWFLAKE"."ACCOUNT_USAGE"."QUERY_HISTORY"
WHERE BYTES_SPILLED_TO_REMOTE_STORAGE > BYTES_SCANNED * 5  -- Each byte read was spilled 5x on average
ORDER BY SPILLING_READ_RATIO DESC
;

https://quickstarts.snowflake.com/guide/resource_optimization_performance_optimization/index.html?index=..%2F..index#4


Azure Machine Learning: This is a central service that supports the entire machine learning lifecycle, from experimentation to deployment. It integrates with MLflow, an open-source platform for managing the machine learning lifecycle, allowing for tracking experiments, packaging code, managing models, serving and deploying models, and registering models. Azure Machine Learning also offers functionalities for managing and versioning models, supporting various machine learning frameworks, and integrating model serving and deployment capabilities 2.
Infrastructure and Resources: Azure provides recommendations for managing shared analytics and storage infrastructure, including cloud file systems for storing datasets, databases, and big data clusters (e.g., SQL or Spark). This infrastructure supports reproducible analysis and prevents duplication, leading to cost savings and consistency. It also includes tools for provisioning shared resources, tracking them, and allowing secure connections for team members 2.
Team Data Science Process (TDSP): This is an agile, iterative methodology for delivering predictive analytics solutions and AI applications efficiently. TDSP includes best practices and structures from Microsoft and other industry leaders to help teams implement data science initiatives successfully. It outlines a lifecycle for structuring data science projects, consisting of five major stages that teams perform iteratively 2.
Tools and Utilities: Azure offers tools to implement the TDSP and lifecycle, aiming to lower the barriers to adoption and increase consistency. It supports the use of open-source tooling as part of the data science pipeline or workflow and promotes responsible AI tools to achieve Microsoft's Responsible AI Standard 2.
Standardized Project Structure: Azure supports a standardized project structure that includes documentation, project reports, data reports, model reports, and code for data preparation, model development, and operationalization. This structure facilitates efficient project management and collaboration 2.
These services and tools collectively provide a robust framework for data scientists and teams to conduct data science projects, manage models, and deploy solutions on Azure.

Azure offers a variety of container services to cater to different needs, from simple container hosting to complex orchestration and management. Here's a comprehensive list of Azure's container services:

Azure Container Apps: Designed for building and deploying modern apps and microservices using serverless containers, offering a fully managed Kubernetes-based application platform 12.
Azure Container Storage: Provides management of persistent volumes for stateful container applications 1.
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): A managed Kubernetes service for deploying and scaling containerized applications, offering advanced and highly customizable orchestration functionality 125.
Azure Container Registry: A service for building, storing, securing, and replicating container images and artifacts 12.
Azure Container Instances: Allows launching containers with hypervisor isolation, suitable for running containers in Azure without managing virtual machines 125.
Azure Red Hat OpenShift: Offers managed Red Hat OpenShift for deploying and scaling containers, providing additional security and observability features 2.
Azure Functions: A serverless compute service that lets you run event-driven code without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure 2.
Web App for Containers: A feature of Azure App Service for running containerized web apps on Windows and Linux, offering built-in infrastructure maintenance, security patching, scaling, and diagnostic tooling 24.
Azure Service Fabric: A platform for distributed systems that can run in many environments, including Azure or on-premises, offering a custom orchestration platform 25.
Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager: Helps manage Kubernetes clusters at scale, providing seamless management capabilities 2.
Azure Kubernetes Service Edge Essentials: An on-premises Kubernetes implementation of Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) for automating the running of containerized applications at scale 2.
These services cater to a wide range of containerization needs, from simple container hosting to complex orchestration and management, offering various levels of control, customization, and management capabilities.


The resource needs for Azure's container services, particularly focusing on Azure Container Instances (ACI), are outlined below based on the provided sources. These details are crucial for planning and managing deployments within Azure's ecosystem.

General Resource Limits for ACI
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory (GB): 16 GB
Storage (GB): 50 GB
Availability Zone support: Yes
These limits apply to general purpose (standard core SKU) containers in general deployments and Azure virtual network deployments for both Linux and Windows containers 1.

Specific Resource Limits for Different Scenarios
Linux Container Groups:
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory: 16 GB
VNET Max CPU: 4 cores
VNET Max Memory: 16 GB
Storage: 50 GB
Windows Server 2019 LTSC:
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory: 16 GB
Storage: 20 GB
Availability Zone support: Yes
Windows Server 2022 LTSC:
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory: 16 GB
Storage: 20 GB
Availability Zone support: Yes
Confidential Container Resources (Preview):
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory: 16 GB
VNET Max CPU: 4 cores
VNET Max Memory: 16 GB
Storage: 50 GB
GPU Container Resources (Preview):
V100 GPU SKUs:
1 GPU: Max CPU 6 cores, Max Memory 112 GB, Storage 50 GB
2 GPUs: Max CPU 12 cores, Max Memory 224 GB, Storage 50 GB
4 GPUs: Max CPU 24 cores, Max Memory 448 GB, Storage 50 GB
Spot Container Resources (Preview):
Max CPU: 4 cores
Max Memory: 16 GB
Storage: 50 GB
Unchangeable (Hard) Limits
Number of containers per container group: 60
Number of volumes per container group: 20
Ports per IP: 5
Container instance log size - running instance: 4 MB
Container instance log size - stopped instance: 16 KB or 1,000 lines
Changeable Limits (Eligible for Quota Increases)
Standard SKU container groups per region per subscription: 100
Standard SKU cores (CPUs) per region per subscription: 100
Standard SKU cores (CPUs) for V100 GPU per region per subscription: 0
Container group creates per hour: 300
Container group creates per 5 minutes: 100
Container group deletes per hour: 300
Container group deletes per 5 minutes: 100
These limits are subject to change and can be increased by submitting an Azure support request. However, not all limit increase requests are guaranteed to be approved 1.


ALTER TABLE NOTEPAD_F ADD COLUMN NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY VARCHAR;
ALTER TABLE NOTEPAD_F ALTER COLUMN NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY DROP NOT NULL;
INSERT INTO NOTEPAD_F (
    NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY
) SELECT py_spacy_id(NOTEPAD_TXT) AS NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY FROM NOTEPAD_F

How do I avoid running the function more than once?

And keeping a single column?


To avoid running the py_spacy_id function more than once on your NOTEPAD_F table in Snowflake, you can use a conditional update approach. This method checks if the NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY column is already populated before applying the function. Here's how you can modify your script:

UPDATE NOTEPAD_F
SET NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY = py_spacy_id(NOTEPAD_TXT)
WHERE NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY IS NULL;

This script updates the NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY column only for rows where NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY is NULL, ensuring that the py_spacy_id function is not called unnecessarily on rows that already have a value in the NLP_ICF_DIFFICULTY column. This approach is efficient and avoids reprocessing data that has already been processed, thus saving computational resources and time.


Using GPUs in Azure Machine Learning offers several advantages:

Speed and Efficiency: GPUs can significantly accelerate machine learning (ML) workloads, making them faster and more efficient. This is particularly important with the increasing volume of data and the need for quicker processing times. Azure Machine Learning integrates with NVIDIA's RAPIDS, providing up to 20x speedup for traditional machine learning pipelines, and ONNX Runtime with NVIDIA TensorRT for deep learning inferencing 1.
Scalability: GPUs allow for scalable computing, enabling the handling of large datasets and complex models. This is crucial for data scientists and developers working on large-scale projects. Azure Machine Learning supports distributed training across multiple nodes, which can be configured to use GPUs, further enhancing scalability 3.
Flexibility: The integration of NVIDIA's technologies in Azure Machine Learning offers flexibility to developers and data scientists. They can choose from a variety of GPU options based on their specific needs, whether it's for training compute-intensive models or for distributed training across multiple nodes 3.
Cost-Effectiveness: By leveraging GPU acceleration, Azure Machine Learning can help reduce the computational resources required for ML tasks, making it a more cost-effective solution for organizations. This is particularly beneficial for those working with large datasets or complex models that would otherwise be resource-intensive 3.
Advanced Features: Azure Machine Learning's integration with NVIDIA's technologies also provides access to advanced features such as NVIDIA's multi-instance GPU (MIG) technology, which allows for partitioning each GPU into multiple instances, offering flexibility and scalability for diverse AI workloads 4.
In summary, using GPUs in Azure Machine Learning offers speed, efficiency, scalability, flexibility, cost-effectiveness, and access to advanced features, making it an attractive option for data scientists and developers working on machine learning projects.

For NLP tasks using the spaCy library, utilizing a GPU can significantly benefit performance, especially when working with transformer-based models. The speed comparison provided in the sources shows a substantial increase in words per second (WPS) when using a GPU compared to a CPU. For instance, the en_core_web_lg pipeline processes 10,014 words per second on a CPU and 14,954 words per second on a GPU. This indicates that GPU acceleration can lead to a nearly 4x speedup for this specific pipeline 1.

The discussion on GitHub further supports the idea that GPU acceleration can provide noticeable speed-ups during both training and inference tasks. This is particularly true for transformer models, where the difference in performance between CPU and GPU is more pronounced. For inference tasks, even though the speed-up might not be as significant as during training, it's still beneficial to use a GPU if available 3.

To utilize a GPU with spaCy, you can use the require_gpu() or prefer_gpu() functions from the thinc.api module. The require_gpu() function will raise an error if no GPU is available, while prefer_gpu() will not. This allows you to easily switch between CPU and GPU usage based on availability. Here's an example of how to set up spaCy to use a GPU:

from thinc.api import require_gpu # OR prefer_gpu, which will not error if no CUDA
from thinc.backends import use_pytorch_for_gpu_memory # If you are working with transformer models

use_pytorch_for_gpu_memory()
require_gpu()
nlp = spacy.load(...)

This setup ensures that spaCy will use the GPU for processing, taking advantage of its parallel processing capabilities to speed up NLP tasks 3.

In summary, for NLP tasks using spaCy, especially those involving transformer models, leveraging a GPU can significantly improve performance. This is due to the parallel processing capabilities of GPUs, which are well-suited for the matrix operations common in NLP tasks. Whether you're training models or performing inference, using a GPU can provide a substantial speed-up compared to CPU-only processing.
